mmm
you
[Music]
if you're a trailer owner and you spent
more than about a nanosecond in
campgrounds without hook ups then
chances are you're either a generator
owner or soon will be and even if you do
already own a generator like me you're
probably always on the lookout for your
next one here's the thing though in the
universe of portable generators there
are dozens and dozens to choose from and
not a lot that's most of them apart from
each other here's one we think kind of
stands out from the crowd the champion
thirty one hundred thirty four hundred
watt dual fuel inverter generator is you
guessed it out of the box ready to run
on either gasoline or propane let's take
a closer look this unit is rated at 3100
running watts with a peak capacity of
3400 watts its RV ready with a 30 amp
outlet it's California compliant as well
as EPA certified for all 50 states with
nicely integrated carrying handles and a
pull handle and built-in wheels this
champion is relatively portable despite
its weighing in at nearly 100 pounds and
this is pretty cool in addition to the
recoil pole for starting this rig has an
electric start feature the small lead
acid battery that powers the electric
start as part of what makes this unit
heavier than some in its class but
seriously it's super convenient
before we get too far into it you may be
asking why a dual fuel generator well
there's a couple of answers to that
simplest of course is the flexibility to
burn whichever fuel is handy for our
viewer's propane is just about always at
the ready but then there's that whole
energy formula thing you'll get about
four and a half hours of runtime on a
gallon of gas but only about three hours
on a gallon of propane on a dedicated
five gallon propane bottle you'll get
like 14 and a half hours of runtime
without refueling though but only a
little over seven hours of straight
runtime on the 1.6 gallon gasoline tank
so with gas you may have a gas can
storage issue to deal with
also gasoline is less stable than
propane so if you're not using the
generator very often propane may make
sense environmental issues are concern
again nice to have the propane option as
it does burn cleaner than gasoline
simply put the answer for you may be
different on different dates and the
thing about the champion duel fuel model
is you don't have to decide
[Music]
the water at additional cost of the dual
fuel model may well be with the
flexibility advising the 3130 400 watt
model sells for 1099 there's also a very
similar 3150 3500 watt model available
only at camping world that sells for
twelve ninety nine ninety nine and
another big generator decision is size
yes it does matter lots of folks maybe
most opt for generators more in the 2000
watt genre they are relatively light and
typically manageable by one person of
course they are also less expensive
checking in at roughly half the price of
a three thousand class generator but the
three thousand watt and above generator
will not only power the RV microwave and
the hair dryers a 3,000 watt generator
this champion 3100 3400 model included
will also power your RVs air conditioner
not so with the 2000s and that may be a
big factor for your RV lifestyle the
3000 class generators are heavier and
bulkier but some would argue that to be
more of a feature if you camp in places
where theft could be a concern there's
just not that many people who can walk
off with let alone run off with a
hundred pounds under their own so
choices aside let's put the champion
through some paces out of the box the
QuickStart guide was straightforward and
well written and had us up and running
in about 45 minutes or so including
adding oil and getting the battery
connected a fairly tedious but
one-time-only process as mentioned the
electric start is really convenient but
even the recoil cord takes no more than
a typical lawnmower pole to get started
one of the big concerns with RV
generators is noise none of us wants to
be that guy am i right but the champion
checks that box nicely coming in right
at the 60 decibels at 50 foot national
park service standard
by my comparison test with the iPhone
decibel meter the champion comes in just
a decibel or two above the Honda mm
arguably the gold standard of camp Pro
quiet generators switching between gas
and propane fuel sources is literally as
easily done as said attach the included
Quick Connect hose and regulator turn on
the propane and fire it up really it's
that simple
I don't think you have to be an RV tech
to know a good generator when you see
what after putting the champion through
some paces we found it to be easy to
start and easy to use we particularly
like the electric start feature we like
the idea of being able to run on cleaner
propane fuel or not our choice
personally I kind of like the idea of it
being a little theft resistant the
heavier bulkier unit all told I'm a fan
I'll be proud to show off the champion
3134 hundreds of passers-by in many
campgrounds to come
[Music]
you